# **Song on Your Mind**

### Program Outline
Too often, I’ve been humming small song melody sections on repeat, getting them stuck in my head. Usually, this is totally fine, and I’m happily humming my tunes while doing work, walking around, or while doing any other activity. However, there are those times when I don’t know what song I’m humming, and I don’t know where it’s coming from—like having tens of tabs open on chrome, trying to find which one is playing the audio. Other times, I’ll also be making music, trying to make a catchy melody I like, or I might already have a melody in my head that I need to get down quick, because I find it so nice. I’ll often find that some of these great melodies I come up with are—well, ones I didn’t actually come up with, as they were just melodies stuck in my head from other songs I’ve listened to. The idea for this program is designed to solve both of these issues in one. This program’s purpose is to be able to find a song matching a given melody inputted by the user. This should mean no more scratching your head, using all your brainpower to remember that song name, as it can be found simply by putting in that melody stuck on your mind. On top of that even, this program should give you the go-ahead to put that new melody of yours to use if it can’t find any matching melodies from pre-existing songs.

The program itself is quite simple, as it really boils down to a MIDI reader that then searches for matching MIDI in its database. The basic program has only a browsing feature to select a MIDI pattern to match to, a detection button to start its search for a matching melody, as well as an area to display the information for a matching song. An additional feature that could be added would be a MIDI writing feature, so you could directly write a MIDI file with your melody to match to through a piano, keyboard, or other instrument. The next step above that would allow for live MIDI writing & writing, allowing the user to find a song matching the melody as they play the melody on their instrument. Even above that would be to add more accuracy to the melody matching by not only using the notes to match melody, but to find melodies using rhythm as well. Finally, the most ambitious addition would be to add pitch detection, to not only let the user input a melody through playing an instrument, but just by humming. A JFrame with premade button icons and a background, with functional JButton, JLabel and other GUI capabilities will be implemented to handle user interface and user input.

### Sample Input & Output
If the user presses the ‘Detect’ button to search for a song with the selected MIDI, without a MIDI file selected, the program should show the user a warning message, saying that there is no MIDI file selected.

If the user clicks the ‘Record’ button, the program should start listening for MIDI input from the connected MIDI device. Then if the user plays this melody: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HHVlSjASTai4xTz7jJ3uNlvZIZyq0UnT/view?usp=sharing on the piano, the program should write this MIDI information to a MIDI file. The user can then click the ‘Stop Recording’ button to end the program’s file writing. The user can then select that newly written file, and click ‘Detect’, and the program should go through its database to find the song with the matching melody. The program should then find the song ‘Keep You Mine’ by NOTD, and display the EP cover art, the song name, and the artist name.
